# Welcome to Concordia 

Concordia is a crowdsourcing platform hosted by the Library of Congress. The first iteration of Concordia will be used to launch Make Your Mark, a crowdsourcing program that invites members of the public, non-specialists and specialists alike, to engage with collections. This program enables volunteers to explore collections while gaining new skills, like reading handwriting and parsing primary sources, while helping institutions process data and make collections more usable.

## Want to help?

We are so excited that you want to jump right in. To get started:

1. Check out our [CONTRIBUTING page](concordia/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) and see the different ways you can help out. 
2. Next, take a look at [How we work](concordia/docs/how-we-work.md), there you'll learn more about how we use GitHub and what we are looking for if you are contributing code.  
3. Continue reading our README. On this page are our technical requirements on setting up the application on your computer. 


## Prerequisites

This application can run on a single Docker host using docker-compose. 
(recommended for development environments). For production, see the 
cloudformation directory for AWS Elastic Container stack templates.

## Passwords

This project stores passwords in a file named `.env`. You must create this 
file in the concordia root directory. An example of a `.env` file is in 
the top level source directory named `example_env_file`.

This file contains:

    GRAFANA_ADMIN_PW=<grafana_admin_password_here>
    CONCORDIA_ADMIN_PW=<concordia_admin_password_here>
    POSTGRESQL_PW=<postgresql_concordia_user_password_here>

    SENTRY_PW=<sentry_password_here>
    SENTRY_SECRET_KEY=<sentry_secret_key_here>

    EMAIL_HOST=<your_smtp_email_host_here>
    EMAIL_HOST_USER=<your_smtp_email_host_user_here>
    EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=<your_smtp_email_host_password_here>
    DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL=<your_email_from_address_here>

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<aws_access_key_id_here>
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<aws_secret_access_key_here>

Setting the passwords in this file is the only location where user
passwords are defined. All access to these passwords is through the `.env`
file.

See [docs/sentry.md](docs/sentry.md) for how to set the `SENTRY_DSN` environment 
variables for the Sentry client.


### Sentry Secret Key

If you are running a Sentry server with docker-compose, the sentry 
secret key must be generated and placed into the `.env` file.
To generate the key, run the command:

    $ docker-compose -f docker-compose-sentry.yml run --rm sentry sentry config generate-secret-key

The sentry key is a long value output from this command. Substitute the
value for `<sentry_secret_key_here>` with the value generated by this
command.

Note: If any open or close parenthesis (or other special characters) are 
generated in the key, they
must be preceded by a backslash, `\`, when the value is added to the
`.env` file.


## Running Concordia

    $ git clone https://github.com/LibraryOfCongress/concordia.git
    $ cd concordia
    $ make devup

Browse to [localhost](http://localhost)

### Development Environment

You may wish to run the Django development server on your localhost
instead of within a Docker container. It is easy to set up a Python
virtual environment to work in.

#### Serve

Instead of doing `make devup` as above, instead do the following:

    $ docker-compose up -d db
    $ docker-compose up -d rabbit
    $ docker-compose up -d importer

This will keep the database in its container for convenience.

Next, set up a Python virtual environment, 
install [pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/), and other Python prerequisites:

    $ python3 -m venv .venv
    $ source .venv/bin/activate
    $ pip3 install pipenv
    $ pipenv install --dev

Finally, configure the Django settings, run migrations, and launch the
development server:

    $ export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE="concordia.settings_dev"
    $ ./manage.py migrate
    $ ./manage.py runserver

#### Import Data

Once the database, rabbitMQ service, importer and the application 
are running, you're ready to import data. 
First, [create a Django admin user](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/intro/tutorial02/#creating-an-admin-user) 
and log in as that user.
Then, Click on Campaigns and then Add Campaign. Enter a name for the campaign 
and project and a loc.gov item URL such as 
[https://www.loc.gov/item/mss859430011](https://www.loc.gov/item/mss859430011) and click Create.


#### Data Model Graph

To generate a model graph, do:

    $ docker-compose up -d app
    $ docker-compose exec app bash
    # cd concordia/static/img
    # python3 ./manage.py graph_models concordia > tx.dot
    # dot -Tsvg tx.dot -o tx.svg

#### Python Dependencies

Python dependencies are managed using [pipenv](https://docs.pipenv.org/).

If you want to add a new Python package requirement to the application
environment, it must be added to the Pipfile and the Pipfile.lock file.
This can be done with the command:

    $ pipenv install <package>

If you manually add package names to Pipfile, then you need to update
the Pipfile.lock file:

    $ pipenv lock

Both the Pipfile and the Pipfile.lock file must be committed to the
source code repository.
